---
title: "Week of November 1st"
date: '2020-11-01'
categories:
  - weekly
tags:
  - Statistics

---

Stats riddles, Covariance Matrix, etc.

## What I did

- Continued Bayesian stats
- I've become more interested in finance and looked into what projects or courses I could take to apply my ML knowledge to the finance domain.

## What I learned

- The covariant matrix (alo known as a variant-covariant matrix) is important to understand in general, but especially with its link to eigen-decomposition and PCA. It's best to just define it with an example. Considering the following data. Create a covariance matrix.

|  A |  B |
|:--:|:--:|
| 1  | 3  |
| 2  | 1  |
| -1 | -2 |

First find the deviation score sums.

|  A |  B |
|:--:|:--:|
|(1 - 1/3)^2  |(3 - 3/3)^2  |
|(2 - 2/3)^2  |(1 - 1/3)^2  |
|(-1 + 1/3)^2 |(2 + 2/3)^2  |

Now average these values to get the covariance matrix

|  A |  B |
|:--:|:--:|
|[(1 - 1/3)^2]/3  |[(3 - 3/3)^2]/3  |
|[(2 - 2/3)^2]/3  |[(1 - 1/3)^2]/3  |
|[(-1 + 1/3)^2]/3 |[(2 + 2/3)^2]/3  |

In code:
```python
import numpy as np
A = np.array([1,2,-1])
B = np.array([3,1,-2])

def make_covariance_matrix(A, B)
  matrix = np.stack((A, B))
  n = size(matrix, axis=1)
  temp = matrix - A/n
  matrix = matrix - temp
  matrix = matrix.T @ matrix
  matrix = matrix/n

* Note, the stack function gives a dimension like this 
matrix = array([[ 1,  2, -1],
                [ 3,  1, -2]])
```

- Tricky stats problem:
  > Basic case: What is the expected number of coin flips needed to get a heads.

  - $$E[X=heads] = \sum_i^\infty f(x)*p(X=x)$$ 
  - where x is some state. It could be 1,2,3, 4, etc. meaning that you flip H, or TH, or TTH, or TTTH, etc. and probability for each of those is 1/2, 1/4, 1/8, etc. This infinite sum looks like:
  - $$ \sum\limits_{i=1}^\infty i p (1-p)^{i-1} = \frac{1}{p}$$
  - Here, $f(x)=i$ and $(1-p) = p = \frac{1}{2}$. So the answer is $\frac{1}{1/2} = 2$
  - Another way to think about it is to deconstruct it a bit more explicitely. For example, if x is the number of flips before seeing heads, then the expected number of flips before seeing heads is 1 (your first flip) + probability of geting a tails instead * the expected number of flips. This is a recursive approach to expectation values.

  $$
  E[x] = 1 + p(x)E[x]
  $$

  - This is easily solvable to find that E[x] = 2 if p(x) = .5. This methodology is important to understand for the more complicated problem of 3 heads in a row.

  > What is the expected number of flips needed to get 3 heads in a row?

  - If E[x] is the expected number of flips, then if you get a tails on your first try, the new expectation is 1 + E[x]. This has a probability of 1/2. If you get HT then your new expectation is E[x] + 2 since you've flipped twice and have to start over. This has a probability of 1/4. The probability that you get HHT is 1/8. If we flip HHH, the the expected number of flips is just 3, but this has a probability of 1/8.

  $$
  E[x] = \frac{1}{2} (1 + E[x]) + \frac{1}{4}(2 + E[x]) + \frac{1}{8}(3 + E[x]) + \frac{3}{8}
  $$
  
  > How about for n in a row?

  $$
  \begin{aligned}
    E[x] &= \sum_{i=1}^n \left[ \frac{1}{2^n}*(n + E[x]) \right]\\
    E[x] &= 2(2^n - 1)
  \end{aligned}
  $$

  > How about the expected number of rolls to get 2 6's in a row?

  $$
  \begin{aligned}
  E[x] &= \frac{5}{6}(1 + E[x]) &&+ \frac{1}{6}\frac{1}{6}(2 + E[x]) &&+ \frac{1}{6}\frac{1}{6}(2) \\
       &= P(\text{Roll 1} \neq 6) &&+ P(\text{Roll 1 = 6, Roll 2} \neq 6) &&+ P(\text{Roll} 1, 2 = 6)
  \end{aligned}
  $$

## What I will do Next

- More data science and quant trading interview prep.
