---
title: "Weeks of October 6th"
date: '2020-10-6'
categories:
  - weekly
tags:
  - Statistics
---
Note, last week is missing. Most of what I did is included in the prior week, and the rest is included here. It wasn't enough to merit its own week, because I was too busy traveling preparing my residency permit application so I don't get deported when my travel VISA expires in 7 weeks.

## What I did

- I've picked up the statistics course again
- I've continued to work through a confetti.ai reading and some of their practice on their webpage. It looks very helpful for any upcoming data science interviews, and a good way to make sure I've mastered the fundamentals.
- TexStudio has a new version that incorporates dark mode much better. I've found the github repo and I'm curious to see how difficult it would be to change the menu bar to be something more like the atom extension "title-bar-replacer." I love how productive I am using TexStudio, but its biggest fault has always been how ugly it is compared to something like Atom or VS Code.

## What I learned

- Gradient descent from scratch, this time with logistic regression instead of linear regression. Only import needed was math in order to do $$log$$ and $$exp$$.
- underscores in python
  - `_variable` is just convention and is the equivalent of a `private variable` in JAVA, i.e. for internal use only.
  - `__variable` is interpreted in a special way by the python interpreter and is like a `final variable` in JAVA. In java this means the variable always has the same value or the same reference when it was first declared. Python does some stuff to these variables to avoid *name mangling* when the class is extended later. In the below example `__id` is mangled to `_Person__id` so the variable is not overridden in any subclasses.

```python
class Person:
  def __init__(self):
      self.name = 'Sarah'
      self._age = 26
      self.__id = 30

>>> p = Person()
>>> dir(p)
['_Person__id', ..., '_age', 'name']

>>> p.name
Sarah

>>> p._age
26

>>> p.__id
AttributeError: 'Person' object has no attribute '__id'

>>> p._Person__id
30

#check out how you can still override __id with a subclass
class Friend(Person):
  def __init__(self):
    self.name = 'Sarah'
    self._age = 26
    self.__id = 25

>>> fr = Friend()

>>> fr._Person__id
30
>>> fr._Friend__id
25
```

-
  - `variable_` is just a convention if you want to name a variable something that is already a keyword like:

```python
class Teacher():
  __init__(self, name, class_):
    self.name
    self.class_
```

-
  - `__method__` are dunder methods, special methods in python. I think I wrote about this in an earlier post.

- `_` is used as a variable when the method you're calling is returning a value you don't care about. For example, I don't know why you would ever do this, but, at least this should make it clear.

```python
for i, _ in enumerate(np.zeros(3)):
  print(i)
>>> 0
>>> 1
>>> 2
```



## What I will do next
