---
title: "Week of April 11th"
date: '2021-04-11'
categories:
  - weekly
tags:
- statistics
---

Skewnorms and comparing simulations to experiment data

## What I did

- Monday: Wrote code for multi-shell feff configuring
- Tuesday: Ran simulations and averaging codes
- Wednesday: Wrote code for multi-moment gaussian weightings (i.e. control skew, kurtosis)
- Thursday: Got my multi-moment weightings code working
- Friday: Weekly meeting. Compared simulation data to experimental data to test the feff parameters.
- Saturday: Fine tuning method to created different gaussian weightings.
- Sunday: I figured out how to measure the MSD for the weighted spectra

## What I learned

- Monday: My code shell definitions are different from what nearest neighbor coordinations shells actually are. My definitions are better for what I'm interested in testing though. (sensitivity testing)
- Tuesday: There is not much sensitivity difference between the 3rd and 4th shells (like 43 to 55 atoms)
- Wednesday: - skew = left tailed. + skew = right tailed. High kurtosis = high peakedness. low kurtosis = fat tails.
- Thursday: Still questioning whether to adjust all the new skewed distributions so that the peak is always at zero.
- Friday: Good agreement of simulatiosn with experimental data. 
- Saturday: Because I have to create all possible combinations of 3 parameters and then sample values fro those spectra, my method is $$ O(n^4) ... $$ I'm trying to think of a clever trick to improve efficiency, but because I need all the combinations, the best I could probably do is $$ O(n^3) $$. It will probably take $$ 10 \times 10 \times 10 \times 85 $$ iterations. Not great. 10 to vary the mean, 10 to vary the variance, 10 to vary the skew, and the 85 calculations to do with each spectrum. 
- Sunday: 

$$
MSD~for~averaged~spectrum = \left( \frac{1}{standardization~factor} \right) \sum_{shifts} \left( shift^2 \times (weighting factor) \right)
$$

where

$$
weighting~factor = Skewnorm(shift)
$$

and 

$$ 
standardization~factor = \sum weighting~factors
$$ 


## What I will do next

- Generate the training data and start on the neural network
