---
title: "Week of April 25th"
date: '2021-04-25'
categories:
  - weekly
tags:
---

## What I did
- Sunday: Thesis chapter $$ \LaTeX $$ writing
- Monday: Thesis chapter $$ \LaTeX $$ writing
- Tuesday: More writing, but I also redid some figures comparing simulation to experimental data.
- Wednesday: Finished revising thesis chapter two to the point that it was good enough to send along. Attempted to install tensorflow, but couldn't get the GPU working. Will do tomorrow.
- Thursday: Finished up the `multi-moment-gausianator.py` script and generated all the training data for my NN. Finished setting up an anaconda `venv` for Tensorflow 2.4.0. 


## What I learned
- Tuesday: By including *some* disorder in the simulated bulk spectrum I made a slightly better representation of the experiment vs simulation comparison. The problem is that one of the simulation peaks doesn't cross in the same place that they very clearly cross in the experimental data. Could just be that the size difference is coded in the third peak. 
- Wednesday: The problem was that `anaconda install tensorflow-gpu` didn't work, and when I `pip install tensorflow-gpu`, and `pip install cudnn` and `pip install cuda-toolkit', I didn't specify exact versions, and if you just install all the most recent ones, it turns out they're not compatible. I fixed it by downgrading to `tf 2.4.0` and `cudnn 8.0`.  
- Thursday: Loading lots of csv files into tensorflow is trickier than I thought, especially since I encoded the labels in the header. I also encoded the labels in a separate csv file, so maybe I'll just load the data and fix the labels after? Or alternatively, I could write my own generator function. But it would be nice to use tensorflow's built in dataloader funcitons.

## What I will do next