---
title: "Week of June 6th"
date: '2021-06-06'
categories:
  - weekly
tags:
---


## What I did
- Sunday: Trained the neural network on the skew-norm dataset and spent some time playing around with the architecture and hyperparameters.
- Monday: I picked a model from yesterday I was happy with and used it to predict the data from the particle-averaged (real disorder) dataset. The results were dissapointing. I also spent a lot of time working on job interview preparation.
- Tuesday: I'm investigating why the NN performed poorly predicting the other dataset. I have some theories and ideas for solutions, but I want to pull up some specific examples to illustrate why.
- Wednesday - Sunday: Re-thought how to define MSD, both in terms of calculating it for the particle averaged structure and in terms of how I'm weighting the skew-norm averaged ones. This seems to have fixed my issues. This is now going to be published work, so I am going to be vague on details to protect my work.

## What I learned
- Sunday: A simple 2 hidden layer architecture actually works really well for signal processing, essentially picking out minute distinctions between spectra.
- Monday: I was helping out a friend with a pandas problem where he couldn't extract the value from a row, and was getting an ndarray or a Series object. The solution was to add `.item()` to the end of the `.loc[" "][ ] ` statement.
- Tuesday: Here's my thoughts behind the poor generalization. My NN is predicting MSD, an aggregate statistic gerenated from a clever skew-norm averaging. However, 2 very different skew-norm distributions can produce similar or even identical MSD values, yet create wildly different looking structures. I might be able to improve performance by actually having the NN predict the moments of the skew-norm distribution. This would be equivilient to predicting the full radial dsitribution frunction $$g(r)$$. One other thing I've noticed, however, is that the predictions are consistently low. It seems that the shapes of the particle averaged spectra and pretty different from the skew-norm averaged ones, and might require some scaling function to better match. Interestingly, the gaussian averaged ones matched quite well. Not sure why the skew-norm are so different.

## What I will do next
- Write my abstract for my thesis defense. Improve NN to predict multiple outputs.