---
title: "Week of May 10th"
date: '2021-05-10'
categories:
  - weekly
tags:
- pivot tables
---

## What I did
- Monday: Finished script to generate thousands of real-disordered structures.
- Tuesday: Wrote a script to loop through the results from the simulations I submitted yesterday and produced particle averaged spectra. I finished writing the script but I haven't tested it yet because the job is still running. I also submitted the files to the cluster to run.
- Wednesday: Day off. Helped grandmother move. Still waiting for cluster results.
- Thursday: Created a nice plotly figure comparing the particle-averaged FEFF simulations to the gaussian-averaged ones.
- Friday: Wrote python script to loop through all simulation structures and calculate the actual MSRD. Creates file fixed-cipher.csv
- Saturday: Thought about how to go about making the $$ g(r) $$ figure. Worked on running the `particle-averaging.py` script.
- Sunday: Neural Network compile and fit working. I've only built it for linear regression right now, but the code is working such that I can start to build up a more complex network.

## What I learned
- Monday: Turns out the MSD values I had measured were off by a facotr of 10 because they were being square-rooted an extra time.
- Tuesday: I learned about pivot tables and how they can be useful. Pandas dataframes have a df.pivot_table command that might just do what you want when df.group_by doesn't work.
- Wednesday: -
- Thursday: The plots reveal my gaussian method might work after all. Since I have both datasets now, there's no reason I can't make two neural networks, or train it with one or the other and see if they work. See what I will do next
- Friday: Some of the anomolies might be because the the greater disorder causes a sort of buckling. It will be coll to create a $$ g(r) $$ plot of each disordered structure. I need to think about how to go about this, specifically with binning. Will bring it up next tuesday meeting.
- Sunday: Tensorboard integration in VS Code Insiders isn't working sometimes. I got it to work by launching it in Conda though and going to the localhost page in a browser.


## What I will do next
- I like the idea of training it with the gaussian-averaged training data and then using the network to predict the results of the particle-averaged data.
- I want to figure out why tensorboard integration is being annoying. I also want to dig deeper into the tensorboar map to understand the compute graph better.