---
title: "On the Importance of Data Literacy in Decision Making"
date: '2021-02-10'
categories:
  - miscellaneous
tags:
  - statistics
---
(In Progress)

Although this is categorically a blog, I rarely post anything other than what I've learned each week in the fields of statistics, computer science, and data science. Here, however, I'm breaking from this mold. I hope I can, with great tact, explain my frustration in the lack of data literacy in America. Perhaps this frustration has been compounded with grabby headlines that misrepresent the contents within. The article that prompted me to write this post --one which was virally shared --was entitled, ["The US economy lost 140,000 jobs in December. All of them were held by women"](https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/08/economy/women-job-losses-pandemic/index.html) and published on CNN.com

## The CNN Article

I originally wanted to look at the data the article cites, explain what it means, and then show how their explanations are, at best, misleading. But the article is so riddled with statistical illiteracy, that I will instead go more or less line-by-line to explain why precise language is so important when talking about statistics. Often our colloquial lexicon varies slightly from the true scientific/mathematical definitions. In the context of ............. intentionality and exactness is imperative in this context; the consequence being the dissemination of misinformation.

Let's begin with sentence two (the first is fine).
> Sure, there were still many other gender gaps: women were more likely than men to work part-time, for example, because of caregiving responsibilities at home, and even among full-time workers, they earned on average only 81 cents for every dollar of their male peers.

It's really the second half of this sentence that's problematic -- *[women] earned on average only 81 cents for every dollar of their male peers.* I know exactly to which study they're referring -- it's this one: [Payscale's 2020 data exploring the state of the gender wage gap](https://www.payscale.com/data/gender-pay-gap). First of all, "on average" does not mean median. We use median income for studies like this or for university or degree graduates as opposed to averages because they're less prone to outliers. The average income for men compared to women is actually probably way higher than $1 to $0.81 because there are so many more ultra-wealthy men than women. We do this for median income of *X* College vs. *Y* College for the same reason -- a couple of billionaires screws the mean income result to have a different interpretation than.

Example:
> If every Princeton graduate really had a mid-career salary of $150,500, we could find the mean income of students by saying:
> $$\frac{Number of students \times Average Income}{Number of students} = average income$$
> For 10 years of Princeton students, this is:
> $$\frac{10 years * 4022 grads/year * $150,500}{10 years * 4022 grads/year} = $150,500$$
> Now, let's just include 1 more student: Jeff Bezos, who earned $75B in 2020.
> The equation above, included Jeff, becomes:
> $$\frac{10 years * 4022 grads/year * $150,500 + $75 \times 10^9}{10 years * 4022 grads/year + 1 grad} = 1,515,282.
> Jeff Bezos alone brings the average mid career earnings of Princeton graduates up by an order of magnitude. This is why when we want to know information about typical salaries, we always use the median instead of the mean



